---
layout: post
title: Languages
---

## C

**2002:**had a course on C, and hated it because nobody told me what it was
for.


**2007:**Picked C up agiain, for ARM development.

## C++



**2008:**After working on kernel space for nearly a year, and wrote some
simple drivers for S3C2410 chip, I want a gui program in order to manipulate
the driver with the touch screen of my handhold device. Qt was at that time
the only thing I knew, so I tried some Qt code, and soon got confused by all
the differences that C++ brought over C, that drove me to start my journey
with C++.

## PHP

## HTML

## Python



**2009:** Asianux(the company I was working for at that time) made a decision
to switch from its own system updater(axtu) to YUM, as at that time the only
axtu developer in the company, I need to join YUM development, that's how I
started to learn and use Python.

## Bash

## Make

## Java



**2002:**My cusion Aric Zhou(now employee of IBM) was at that time studying in
Tsinghua Unversity. I stayed in his dorm for a couple of weeks for my own
business. One day I saw a big book on Java, and Aric told me if you try to
learn this, you will feel the knowleadge is overwhelming, meaning so much you
need to remeber. But I was not scared, I always am good at rembering things
myslef... but anyway, I thing that's the first time I heard the name Java.


**2005:**Aric told me that he met James Gosling.


**2008:**attended a presentation by a smart teacher, teaching me how to draw a
turtle with Java, I liked it, but that did not persuade me to start to learn
this language.

**2009:**was told that Google Adriod was built with Java, and I got shocked,
since I always tought Java as a scripting langauge is not fast enough for
embedded use. But Google just did it, and solve some problems by maintaining
their own branch of Java Libs.

**2010.7:**never wrote a single line of Java code till now, and have not read
much either.

## elisp


**2009:** Used Emacs for 3 months, and thus learned a little bit of this, they
do have great documents on gnu.org

